**Run variance decomposition and genetic associations for performance analyses of LiMMBo**

1. **Run time and covariance estimation**: Analyses on phenotypes with three different levels of h2 and ten different numbers of traits (10-100) for a population with related individuals. Phenotypes are composed infinitesimal genetic ('background') and observational noise effects only. Run time and covariance estimation analyses on variance decomposition step only; Covariance estimates for LiMMBo via [*runLiMMBo*](../limmbo/limmbo/bin/runLiMMBo), for REML via [*runSimpleVD*](../limmbo/limmbo/bin/runSimpleVD). 

1. **Calibation**: Analyses on phenotypes with three different levels of h2 and four different numbers of traits (10, 30, 40, 50) for three different populations: i) related individuals, no population structure, ii) unrelated individuals, population structure, iii) unrelated individuals, no population structure. Phenotypes are composed of infinitesimal genetic and observational noise effects only. Calibration analyses test if the model is well-behaved under the null-model of the association analyses, i.e. of no genetic SNP effect. The calibration of three different models was tested: multi-variate linear model with principal components as kinship estimates, multi-variate linear mixed model with covariance estimates from REML and multi-variate linear mixed model with LiMMBo. For the mixed model analyses,  variance decomposition of the phenotypes is conducted via [*calibration_vd.sh*](calibration_vd.sh) (covariance estimates for LiMMBo obtained via [*runLiMMBo*](../limmbo/limmbo/bin/runLiMMBo), for REML via [*runSimpleVD*](../limmbo/limmbo/bin/runSimpleVD). The genome-wide association analysis is run via [*calibration_association.sh*](calibration_association.sh). 

1. **Power**: Analyses on phenotypes with five different levels of h2 and ten different numbers of traits (10-100) for a population with related individuals. Phenotypes are composed of SNP genetic effects, infinitesimal genetic effects and observational noise effects only. For each dataset, five different SNP effects were simulated, affecting different proportions of the simulated traits (0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1). The power of the multivariate linear mixed model with LiMMBo was compared to a univariate linear mixed model. For the multivariate model, variance decomposition of the phenotypes is conducted via [*calibration_vd.sh*](calibration_vd.sh). The association analyses of the true causal SNPs (known from simulation) is run via [*power_association.sh*](power_association.sh). 
